Hello there and welcome
back to a new section here!
In today's section, we're gonna
be talking about household items.
So these are a bunch of different
items and things we have around the house,
which is typically
very, very useful
to be able to talk about when learning
a new language or in a new language.
You can't imagine the times that I have
been very frustrated trying to say
something as simple as "a coaster"
in a new language
and haven't been able to.
"A bottle" or like
"a fork" or "a knife" or things like that
that are just normal,
regular items around the house.
And so this section is going
to be around that theme.
I hope you enjoy!
You know how
this works already.
So let's get started now.
"I rented my first apartment".
I rented my first apartment.
Congratulations!
"My roommate Bill and I
need household items".
"My roommate."
"Roommate" is
someone who
lives with me together in the apartment.
So if you live with people in
the same apartment,
they are your roommates.
Okay.
"Room" is an individual word
and "mate" means "friend".
"Mate" means "friend".
If you go to Australia, for example
or England, the UK,
people will say "mate" all the time.
"Hey, good day, mate!"
"How's it going, mate?"
"Good day, mate!"
"My roommate Bill and I
need household items."
"I need a bed".
A "bed".
"The bed" is where we sleep. Right?
"I also need a table
and chairs for the kitchen".
Okay, a table is what I'm
touching right now.
"Chair."
What I'm sitting in right now.
"...for the kitchen."
Right?
"Chairs for the kitchen."
"Bill has a couch".
"Couch."
We can also say "sofa".
Bill has a "couch/sofa".
That's good.
We can use Bill's couch.
We don't need to buy a new one.
Alright, so remember the difference here.
This is "coach" and this is "couch".
Okay.
This is "coach", which is kind
of like "trainer", right?
That's me.
I'm your English "coach".
I'm not your English "couch".
"Couch" is a sofa.
Coach, couch.
Bill has a couch.
"I think we need a chair
for the living room".
Okay.
"I think we need a chair
for the living room."
"Living room" is the main room
where we have
our couch, our TV, where we hang around,
where we do most of the living.
Right?
In the "bedroom", we do most of
other things that are
not particularly living.
Or you may call them living
actually, now that I think about it.
Let's not talk more about what's
going on in the "bedroom".
That's between you and whoever you
share your bedroom with.
All right.
"I need a large screen TV".
A "large screen TV."
A "big screen TV" or a "big TV".
we can say that in those different ways.
"Bill disagrees".
Okay?
"We have agree".
"I agree with you" or "I disagree."
Bill disagrees.
Why is there an S here?
Because Bill is a "he", right?
And whenever we have "he",
"she", or "it" as the subject
in a sentence,
we always add an S at the end of the verb.
Okay?
"Bill disagrees."
He does not think we need
a large-screen TV.
He probably thinks
that's a waste of money.
Right?
"I need things to cook with too".
I need things to cook with too.
Now this is something that was very
hard for me to learn in Spanish,
because in Spanish, you basically say,
"I need things with which I can cook too."
Okay?
In Spanish, you would say,
"yo necesito cosas con cuales
puedo cocinar tambien."
You can say it like that in English too,
but it's way
more common to say this,
"I need things to cook with too."
"To cook with."
Okay, this is correct,
but it's not common at all.
And that's how you say it in Spanish,
which was very hard for me to learn
because I was so used to this sentence
structure that,
learning Spanish, I had to
adopt a new sentence structure.
And how do we do that?
By consuming sentences,
right?
And so you're going to consume a
lot of sentences like this, and you're
going to learn it.
Okay?
So I know it's a little bit
weird right now, but you will learn it.
"But Bill already has some".
He already has some things to cook with.
Okay.
"Do you have pots and pans?"
"I ask."
"Pots" and "pans".
Okay.
Pots and pants.
Let's have a look at what a pot is.
This is a pot.
This is a "pot", and this is a "pan".
We call it a "cooking pan".
It's because my Google
is in Spanish, right?
So that's why.
Because "pan" in Spanish is bread.
And this is bread.
"Cooking pan."
Okay, so this is a "cooking pan."
This is a pan or a "frying pan".
We called it a frying pan.
That's way more common.
So this is a frying pan.
So in the story it goes,
"Do you have pots and pans? I ask."
"Yes, but I don't have any dishes".
"I don't have any dishes, Bill replies."
Okay, so what do we mean with "dishes"?
Well, things like "forks", "spoons"
and "knives" and things like that.
I don't have any dishes, Bill replies.
"At the home store, I buy dishes".
Okay. Now, what are dishes, particularly?
"I ask Bill to buy forks and spoons".
Fork and spoons.
Okay, so let's have a little
bit of vocabulary here.
"Forks."
Forks is apparently a city,
so Google isn't friendly with me today.
This is a fork.
Okay?
Very easy word, right?
Fork.
Why is it called a fork?
Let's see if you are good at
being a detective...
Because it has four little things here.
1,2,3,4.
It's fork.
Fork, okay?
So that's why it's
called "forks".
And "spoons".
Okay?
You know what a spoon is?
"Spoon."
Remember, these are vowels.
So in English, the vowel
sounds are very long.
We say "spoooooon".
Okay, this is spoon, right?
We can also say spooning.
This is spooning.
It's similar in your language, right?
The same.
Okay?
All right, let's go back and be serious.
"I ask Bill to buy forks and spoons."
"I ask him."
"I don't have bed sheets and towels".
I don't have "bed sheets" and "towels".
"Bed sheets."
These are bed sheets.
These particularly.
"Sheets."
These are called "bed sheets",
and they can be in different colors.
I like dark ones.
Dark ones.
And you don't get that many stains
on them either,
if you know what I mean.
"Bed sheets" and "towels".
These are "towels", right?
Different types of towels.
Okay, so bed sheets and towels.
"I don't have bed sheets and towels."
We need bed sheets and towels.
Okay?
"Bill needs blankets",
"He needs blankets."
What are blankets, then?
"Blankets" are these things right here.
You know what this word is?
This is a blanket.
A blanket.
So this is different from a "bedsheet"
and a "towel", right?
So this is a blanket.
Bill needs blankets.
So, "Bill and I go to another store",
a different store.
"There I buy bed sheets and
three towels".
"I buy bed sheets and three towels."
"I have very little money left".
"I have very little money left."
There is not much more money left
in my wallet.
I have very little money left because I
spent it all on towels and sheets
and blankets and things like that, right?
"And, I still don't have a bed!"
I still don't have a bed.
Isn't that ironic?
All right, so that's the story for today.
I hope you liked this one.
It's a lot of new words, probably, right?
And remember, you can watch
this video several times, right?
But what I would recommend you to do is
just start listening to the normal
version right here below, right now.
Because now you have these
lines top of mind, okay?
So now, if you listen a couple of times,
you will be like,
"yes, bed sheets, towels."
And you will know what it is.
Let's see if we have any unknown
words here in the interactive version
that you need to know in order to
be able to understand these things.
Here we have one.
"I think we need a chair
for the living room."
This is what I say, right?
"I think we need a chair
for the living room",
for the room where we live, right?
The main room.
In Spanish, you would say
"sala", I think.
Isn't it funny?
It's a funny side story.
I remember when I first arrived to
Mexico and when you
went to a girl's house,
you could only be in the living room.
You could never go to the girl's bedroom,
her own room.
It's like, no, no!
The dad or the mom,
they would kill you.
In Sweden, yeah,
we don't really care about that.
It's a different culture, right?
It's about respect.
I do understand that, but it was
quite funny to me to arrive
to a friend's house,
like it wasn't even my girlfriend or
someone who I was flirting
with or whatever.
It was just a friend.
A friend who was a girl.
And I couldn't go into her room.
I had to sit in the living room,
which was quite funny.
Cultural differences, right?
Okay, let's see if we have any
more new words here or if you
can get ready to get started immediately.
So I ask, "do you have pots and pans?"
"Do I ask him if
he has a coffee maker?"
"Do I ask Bill if he has a coffee maker?"
"No, I don't ask him if
he has a coffee maker."
"I ask him if he has pots and pans."
Okay.
"I ask Bill to buy forks and spoons."
You know what "fork" is, right?
And you know "spooning."
You know what a "spoon" is now.
Does Bill buy "knives"?
Knives.
This is not "kn-ives".
It's "knives."
Knife is the opposite of fork.
Right?
So we have knives.
These are knives, right?
Knives.
So we have forks, knives and spoons.
Okay?
All right.
Yes, that's about it.
Those are all the new words here.
Remember, there's a lot of new stuff here.
"Don't ask why."
Okay, I know you have a bunch of questions
here, "but Kale, why this and why that?"
"Why is this like this?"
Don't ask why.
Now you have these sentences top of mind.
Go down here and listen now.
And if you need to come back
to this video and watch it again
if you forgot one of
the words, that's completely okay.
We don't want the version down
here to have translations, right?
We want to make you independent
of the translations.
I know it's a bit challenging, especially
with a story like this that has
many new words,
but you know, you can do it!
Okay?
You can do it.
All right, awesome!
So what do you need to do now?
Okay, you need to listen to the normal
version two to three times.
Then listen to the interactive
version ten times.
Review your phrases in the RAIO App.
Practice conversations with
RAIO Conversation Club,
RAIO Premium or both.
Right?
Remember, we're here
to help you with that.
And my recommendation is this,
finish one section a day.
That's my recommendation.
Finish one section a day.
One section means watching this video,
doing the normal version
and the interactive version.
Review your phrases in the RAIO App daily
and take one to two conversation or
private sessions weekly so that you put
into practice what you're learning here
and develop that confidence and get rid
of that fear and shame
and mental block when speaking.
Remember, you can download the audio and
the transcript if you want to, right here.
Don't take any notes.
Let the RAIO App do the work for you.
Remember, you can go to the next
section when you're able to answer all
the questions in the interactive version
correctly, out loud, on time,
without looking at the transcript.
And remember, be patient.
Input creates output, okay?
That is how it works.
If you wanna improve your speaking,
consume.
Consume, consume, consume.
If you want to improve your writing,
read, read, read.
And now, in these stories,
you are both reading and listening,
so you are improving your output.
It just takes time.
So be patient.
Okay?
Now, before you move on, repeat after me.
I'll become fluent in English.
I'll never give up on my goal.
Awesome!
Well done.
I'll see you in the next one.
Bye.